# Project-482
35 MW Bagasse based co-generation at M/S Bhimashankar sahakari sakhar karkhana Limited (BSSKL) Pune, Maharashtra.

Scale of the project activity Large Scale

Project Participants Project Proponent: M/s Bhimashankar
Sahakari Sakhar Karkhana limited – Dattatray

Nagar Tal- Ambegaon Dist- Pune.

Host Party India

Applied methodologies and standardized
baselines
 CDMUNFCCC Methodology
 ACM0006: Electricity and heat generation
from biomass(Ver.16)&UCR Standard for
Emission Factor
Sectoral scopes 01 Energy industries (Renewable/NonRenewable Sources)
_____________
M/s. Bhimashankar Sahakari Sakhar Karkhana Limited, (BSSKL), Dattatraynagar, Pargaon via
Awsari (Bk.) Tal. Ambegaon Dist. Pune, is registered under the Maharashtra Co-Operative
Societies Act, 1960 vide Registration No. PAN/AGN/PRG/ (A) S-47/1994 dated 31/03/1994. It is
one of the most progressive sugar factory in the state of Maharashtra. Factory is operating
6000 TCD sugarcane crushing capacity and 35 MW cogeneration power plant. The existing
Sugar unit is geographically located at Lat 18°58'45.11"N & Long 74° 5'27.18"E, at a maximum
elevation of 617 m MSL.

The project titled "35 MW Bagasse-Based Co-Generation by M/s Bhimashankar Sahakari Sakhar
Karkhana, Ambegaon" is a bagasse-based co-generation (co-gen) power project successfully
commissioned by Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company Limited (MSETCL).

 The 6 MW co-generation plant was commissioned on January 4, 2007.

 Another 13 MW co-generation plant was synchronized on October 18, 2013, and started
exporting power on November 4, 2013. From November 2013, the total capacity of the project
proponent's turbine was 19 MW.

 A 16 MW capacity turbine was synchronized in March 2023 and started exporting power from
December 2023.

After December 2023, the total capacity of the plant is 35 MW. However, based on discussions
between the project proponent and MSEDCL, the 6 MW turbine is scheduled to be
decommissioned in 2024. Following this decommissioning, the plant capacity will be 29 MW.
Accordingly, MPCB has granted consent to operate to the project proponent for a capacity of
29 MW for the period from July 2023 to June 2026.The Project authority is M/s Bhimashankar
Sahakari Sakhar Karkhana limited (BSSKL) (hereby to be called as Project Proponent, PP).
__________________
The Co-gen power project of 35 MW capacities is operating on bagasse only for 140 to180 days
during season days. Actual number of mill operation days will be mentioned in the monitoring
period. The project is generating clean energy at the designed level and after meeting the
captive requirement, the surplus energy is exported to the Maharashtra State Electricity
Transmission Company Limited (MSEDCL). All the steam and power requirements of the sugar
mill and co-gen power plant is meet internally from the project itself.

The project activity also induces environmental and sustainable development benefits. The
project activity has introduced efficient high pressure cogeneration technology to the Indian
sugar industry; reducing power shortages in the state of Maharashtra India; and fostering
sustainable economic growth through promoting energy self-sufficiency and resource
conservation in India’s sugarcane industry. Hence, project activity is displacing the estimated
annual net electricity generation i.e., 36,950 MWh from the Indian grid system, which
otherwise would have been generated by the operation of fossil fuel-based grid-connected
power plants. The project activity doesn’t involve any GHG emission sources. The estimated
annual CO2e emission reductions by the project activity are expected to be 29,930 tCO2e,
whereas actual emission reductions achieved during the first CoU period shall be submitted as
a part of first monitoring and verification.

